[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Everyone at home, you want to
start by just picking something
to work on.
So we've talked
about fear of flying.
We've mentioned anxiety.
So you're anxious about
something that is coming up.
You can pick that experience.
You're angry about something
someone said to you three days
ago.
And you think about it, and your
blood starts boiling already.
You have some pain in your body.
It's great for physical pain.
So you tune into your body.
You go, oh, my shoulder's tight.
There is this tension.
Something that you're
stressed about.
And we want to try
to be specific.
We don't want to just
say, my life sucks,
and everything's overwhelming.
So you pick one thing.
And then once you've
identified that one thing,
give it a number on
a scale of 0 to 10.
So to do the process,
you can close your eyes
if it's safe to do so.
You can tune into your body.
And you go, you
know, I'm anxious.
And I feel it in my chest.
And it's about a
presentation that I
have coming up on Friday.
And it's a seven.
When I think about it,
just give it a number.
I'm uncomfortable.
It's a seven.
So now we have our target,
what we're going to tap on.
And we have our number.
And then we start by
tapping on the side
of the hand, the karate
chop point, whatever
hand feels comfortable for you.
And you can tap with
eyes open or closed.
I'm going to use
general language.
And you can just repeat after
me in your mind or out loud.
So tapping on the
side of the hand.
Even though I have all
this stress in my body,
I choose to relax
and feel safe now.
We're going to do that
two more times, staying
on the side of the hand.
Even though I feel
all of this stress,
I choose to relax
and feel safe now.
Now, one more time, still
on the side of the hand.
Even though I have all
this stress, all is well.
Now, we'll tap
through the points.
The first point is
the eyebrow point.
Right on the inside
of the eyebrow where
the hair ends and
it meets the nose
you can tap with two fingers
of one hand, the other hand,
or both hands.
The meridians run down
both sides of the body.
And you're just tapping gently.
I want you to think about
what your thing was.
So if you have pain,
tune into the pain.
If you're anxious, think of the
thoughts that make you anxious.
If you're angry,
what did they say?
What did they do?
Tuning into that
thought pattern.
And then we move to
the side of the eye.
It's not at the temple.
Right next to the eye.
On the bone again, one
side, or both sides.
Tapping gently, breathing
gently, and tuning in.
What happened?
What are you angry about?
What is stressing you out?
Under the eye,
right on the bone.
Think the thoughts again.
And if you're focusing on the
points or your mind wanders,
that's OK.
Just bring it back to the
thing that you are working on.
Is there pain in your body?
Are you anxious?
Are you angry?
Are you overwhelmed?
Now, under the nose.
As you think about this
thing you're working on,
see if you can localize
it in your body.
Do you feel anxiety
in your chest,
a rumbling in your stomach,
or tension in your shoulders?
Tuning in.
Tapping gently.
Now, under the mouth.
Above the chin.
Below the lip in that
little crease there.
Tapping gently.
Thinking the thoughts.
What are you angry about?
What are you anxious about?
Give it a voice.
You can speak it out loud
if it's safe to do so.
You can say, I'm so angry
about what they said.
Be present to what's in the way.
Be present to this stress.
Three points left for
the collarbone point.
Just right below the two
little bones of the collarbone,
you can tap with 10
fingers, both hands,
focusing on the
issue, tapping gently.
Tuning into the stress,
the anxiety, the anger,
the overwhelm.
Underneath the arm, three
inches underneath the armpit.
Right on the bra line for women.
Tapping gently.
Thinking the thoughts.
If there's a movie,
play it in your mind.
What happened?
Last point.
Top of the head.
Tapping gently.
Tuning in.
And then we'll do
one more round.
We'll go back to the eyebrow.
And repeat after me in
your mind or out loud.
It's safe to feel
these feelings.
Side of the eye.
And it's safe to let them go.
Under the eye.
Releasing all this
stress in my body.
Under the nose.
Feeling calm and relaxed.
Under the mouth.
Letting go.
Collarbone.
From every cell in my body.
Under the arm.
Right now.
Top of the head.
And you can gently stop
tapping and take a breath in,
and let it go.
So that was two quick rounds.
And now we just tune back in.
So you go, OK, I was
anxious about this.
Let me think about it again.
It was a seven.
Now, it's a six,
a five, or a four.
And we also pay attention to
what happened in that process.
So we begin to connect the dots.
That's the exploration process.
These are the
things in our lives.
These are the connections.
This is the exploration that
we do with tapping, to go,
what is really
happening in our lives?
Cause we don't know.
We think we know.
And that's one of the
challenges that we go,
well, I have sciatica pain,
because I went for a run.
And it just acted up.
And that's just the way it is.
I have sciatica pain.
And then we explore this work
stress, and the pain goes away.
And that's an opportunity,
especially when
the body and the brain is
relaxed, when you begin to let
go of that anxiety,
that anger, that pain.
Then we can begin to open up
the brain for that healing, that
thought of healing.
And these are emotions.
And we have to
practice these things.
If we haven't felt
hope in a long time,
if we haven't felt
happiness or joy,
one of the things that
I love doing, especially
as we go deeper in
tapping meditations
is practice joy right now.
What would it feel
like to feel joy?
And as you do the
tapping, create that joy.
We think that joy just
happens spontaneously.
But if it's not an experience
that we've had often,
if it's not a chemical
pathway that we're used
to having, we got to practice.
OK.
What would it feel like?
It seems so silly.
Right?
It feels like this
is the basics.
But this is the basics of life
that we haven't been taught.
If you want to experience
joy in your life,
let go of that anger, the
anxiety, the overwhelm,
and then close your
eyes and imagine,
what would it feel
like to be joyful?
What would it feel
like to be hopeful?
like to feel love?
For a lot of people
whose hearts are closed,
if I say close your eyes
and feel love, they go, no.
I don't.
My heart is closed.
I've been hurt.
I have felt so much
pain in my life.
I don't know how to feel this.
But if we first
acknowledge that pain,
if the body begins to feel
that it's safe, and then I go,
all right, imagine
if you could feel
love, what would it feel like?
And people start going,
OK, I get a little bit.
Right?
And then we start slowly.
We're like kids.
We really are emotional
children in a lot of ways.
I'm still learning every day
about these glorious bodies,
our brains, and how
they work together,
and how to effect
transformation in people.
I think we're just at the
beginning of a lot of learning.
And we've got to practice
these things, practice love,
and practice joy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]